# pumping_lemma
This code takes in an infinite language in the form of a regex, checks if it is regular, and if so, displays a random pumpable string from the language. 


This project aims to explore the Pumping Lemma for regular languages and implement a function that checks whether a given inifinte language is pumpable. The Pumping Lemma provides a way of checking if any infinite string in a language is infinitely pumpable both upwards and downwards. It asserts that for any regular language, there exists a pumping length (p) for which any string s in the language with length >= p, you can split s into three substrings xyz where |y| >= 0 and |xy| <= p and xy^iz is also in the language for any integer i>=0. The goal of this project is to generate strings that satisfy the conditions of the Pumping Lemma and verify if they are "pumpable" by checking if their structure allows for repetition of certain substrings. 


When running the code, it will ask for a language. Input some sort of regex like a*b*c* which is pumpable or a{n}b{n} which is not pumpable. Then input the pumping length you want to test for that language. It will then run all the functions, and if there are pumpable strings (under a certain length as to help with readbility) in that language, it will randomly choose 1 and print it to the user. If none are found, the language is not regular, and this message is printed to the user. It chooses a random pumpable string as to provide variety for the user when they run the code on the same regex, as well as to provide them the opportunity to see a variety of types of strings that are pumpable so they can see patterns. 

There is only 1 file in this project as all the functions are compiled into the pumping_lemma.py file which implements all parts of the code as described. It includes a generate_strings function which creates a set of candidate strings that match the given regular expression within the specified length range. The specific details of how strings are generated depend on how the regular expression is processed, and involves pattern matching to the regex.
The satisfies_pumping_lemma function checks whether a given string s satisfies the Pumping Lemma conditions for regular languages. It splits the string into every combination of 3 substrings checks the conditions surrounding length. It then creates strings for pumping y down and up (up to 7 times for simplicity), and checks if these pumped strings would still be part of the language defined by the regex. 
Th is_pumpable function is the main part of the program. It starts by generating a set of strings that match the given regular expression using generate_strings. It then checks each generated string using the satisfies_pumping_lemma function. If any of the generated strings satisfy the Pumping Lemma, they are added to a list of "pumpable" strings. From this list, a random string is selected and returned as an example of a pumpable string.
The main() function handles user interaction. It prompts the user to enter a regular expression and a pumping length. It then calls the is_pumpable function to determine whether the language is pumpable. It prints either a randomly selected pumpable string or a message stating that no pumpable strings were found.
